Understanding Incubation and Entrepreneurship
Understanding Incubation and Entrepreneurship
Dr. B.K. Chakravarthy
Department of Engineering Design
Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay
Module - 03
Innovation, Team Building and Problem Statement
Lecture - 05
Problem Statement Presentation
The third session in a module today is on Building the Problem Statement.
(Refer Slide Time: 00:29)
In fact the right problem statement will help navigate the entire startup journey very very 
effectively.
(Refer Slide Time: 00:36)
Let us now look at our example of Netflix.
(Refer Slide Time: 00:41)
Again going to the video store has been a pain and people do not like traveling back and forth just 
to rent a movie and hate paying late fees.
(Refer Slide Time: 00:49)
And version two going to the video store requires fighting traffic, wandering through aisles and 
waiting in long queues just to get a single movie.
Both these statements have the same intent, but the second one details out the pain and brings out 
an excellent narrative which is very very critical for defining a problem statement.
(Refer Slide Time: 01:10)
(Refer Slide Time: 01:14)
Now, let us hear from Doctor Rupesh what he has to say about the problem statements developed 
by IIT Hyderabad students in their startup projects.
So, like again good afternoon all of you let us now today is a session where you are going to you 
know present your problem statement. Yesterday you formed your teams like you know we 
welcome Doctor Rupesh and we will see your problem statements and we will just support you 
with mentors depending upon what your problem statement is, because it is the first time you are 
presenting we will you know leave it to you know take this forward please go ahead Vijay.
(Refer Slide Time: 01:48)
(Refer Slide Time: 01:51)
Sir this is team 1, so like we are consists of five people Gautam Mayuri Nikita Shubhi and me.
(Refer Slide Time: 01:56)
So, we came up with the idea like how we can help visually impaired person to be a more self 
reliant.
(Refer Slide Time: 02:04)
Like in their daily activities like cooking, shopping, travelling, banking like a monetary 
transactions, dating, physical activities. So, we are targeting on shopping.
(Refer Slide Time: 02:18)
Like while shopping there are some experiences like you know high dependency on strangers like 
shopkeepers retailers or lack of information while purchasing goods or lack of choice and 
confidence while choosing the products or lack of trust while handing over the money.
(Refer Slide Time: 02:33)
So, how we might reduce dependency of the visually impaired while they make a transaction for 
purchased goods.
(Refer Slide Time: 02:41)
So, here are the 5 W’s like Who like the visually impaired, people affected with the blindness we 
are targeting like making transaction easier like and a proof of transaction or they face problems 
in a malls or grocery shops like also in a banking transaction also they have to depend on someone 
strangers.
(Refer Slide Time: 03:05)
And this is the objective we are planning to come up with a product for the visually impaired that 
is customized for printing braille, essentially on the receipts for the purchase they do in a shopping 
malls to reduce their dependency on this for basic information’s.
Very good, so like that that is like quite ok. So, we will go Rupesh any comments on that?
Yeah it is good start, but since I am aware of the field. So, maybe slightly prejudiced because what 
there is one IIT Bombay start up IIT Delhi people who have worked there are other people what 
they do is they have their mobile connected to there is a device which is called Digital Braille, 
there is a IIT student Shyam who worked on it. So, he the you would be surprised at the rate at 
which visually impaired people can read braille ok, it is fantastic as in the speed is phenomenal.
So, they made a device which had a digital braille, basically there are 6 rods which come up you 
feel that and that is how people can understand what is the language and these 6 letters as in 6, 
which one dot is up which dot is down based on that the letter comes up. So, he made a visual as 
in, he made a physical device which can convert this into whatever is connected to it whether it is 
mobile whether it is whatever.
(Refer Slide Time: 04:35)
So, the moment you dwell more into the problem you will understand the problem.
(Refer Slide Time: 04:38)
Good afternoon everyone hi my name is Mahima.
(Refer Slide Time: 04:41)
And I am with Lakhi Shreya, Ved Waliokar, Nirja Sonar. We are team four and let us walk you 
through what our idea is. If you see nowadays we really cannot live without phones everyone needs 
phones we start our day with mobile phones or laptops and we end with them too.
Even during break times our main focus is let us just take a break ok we will just swipe the tabs 
and we will start playing games our life’s are so dependent on these devices. But do you remember 
when we were kids we you know the currents would go out and every kid would be so happy that 
finally lights are out lets go out and play all the colony kids would get together and they would 
play various games like kho kho, you know [FL] they would play with those marbles and these are 
all nostalgic summer period memories.
Yes we do not bring them back what will happen to them they will be lost forever. Most of these 
games they help you with hand eye coordination with your concentration and mainly they help 
you with physical activity, our problem statement is that you know evolved from apes we are 
trapped in apps everyone is so bound in technology that looking beyond is growing impossible.
(Refer Slide Time: 05:54)
Our whole idea is to work around [FL] and bring these things back.
Yeah looks good we will see how we can narrow down further know Rupesh we will just check 
up how the things can happen.
(Refer Slide Time: 06:06)
So, the problem statement is much much more clear the context to be very clear you clearly do not 
want to use technology in this or is it technology enabled [FL] we really do not know. So, just get 
the clarity little bit there and then we are ok with you know and then unnecessary it is too broad.
So, you be very focus with you know I like your hand eye coordination, you know you focus only 
on that maybe that can be a great selling point. So, you need all these things in entrepreneurship. 
So, maybe more will come when you know take things forward.
Let there be a problem that has to be solved. So, there is a reason why it is called a problem right 
as in it is a good to have versus a problem windows are supposed to be there for quitting something 
open. So, wind can come in light can come in there is a reason for that.
(Refer Slide Time: 06:49)
So, may be define the problem which you are going to solve that if you can come down to slightly 
proper like professor Chakravarty said hand eye coordination, then your persona will get 
developed for whom you are developing. Maybe a good idea to understand if the kids who were 
playing outside there are certain advantages which are reported in some studies are missing in the 
current generation in the current.
So, if more people are wearing let us say spectacles because they are hooked on to mobile or the 
concentration is there. If there is an evidence based then that will help you to say that there is a 
problem, which you are going to address, but it is a good stuff.
(Refer Slide Time: 07:23)
Yeah, so we go to team 2 Anshul.
(Refer Slide Time: 07:27)
And we are a team of four people Anshul, Pooja, Tito and Vibhuti, so this is what our problem 
statement is.
(Refer Slide Time: 07:35)
A stress among people in colleges and office due to long working hours. So, can we make we were 
targeting on mental health of people. So, we were thinking of is there something that can be done 
to these people in the time of short breaks which we take.
(Refer Slide Time: 07:53)
Like everyone has our brain has brain is programmed to just focus for 1 hour and then it is 
important to take a 15 minutes break. So, that we again refocus and that keeps the efficiency of 
every person. So, can we what could be done in those 15 minutes which can be better for a person 
to be more efficient? So, what our thought was like 5 minutes break which we have sometimes in 
the in class also if we take a if there is a 5 minutes of nap like it is like a power nap if it feels much 
fresher than a half an hour or 1 hour of sleep this is what our idea was.
So, in what way could we do that. So, previously basically we already in previous project we had 
done a project on this with virtual reality and we were thinking [FL] that was just a experiment 
which is like a POC of concept that we tried at that time and what we wanted is now we want to 
develop that as a product or some kind of a evolution to the second level which can be implemented 
in something.
(Refer Slide Time: 08:57)
But one once you go you know ahead in the course you will also understand customer discovery, 
whom are you making for when you talked about college students you will when you go deep dive; 
there you know what would they like and how will you monetize it is all that will come for sure 
into the things.
But you can also you know define it further you know like basically during short breaks. So, rather 
than you know long thing and then how would you know how would you know that they are 
stressed?
(Refer Slide Time: 09:22)
If you are aware of Elon Musk and if you are aware of the brain device that he is working on, one 
of their elements work on a device which gives you kind of an energy there is a device tufs related 
technology through which you can try to reduce stress. So, there has been effort in that direction 
which has proven to reduce stress.
(Refer Slide Time: 09:46)
So, but we make the statement little bit more you know from the all the aspects should come in 
more into this statement, yeah the statement should give us everything about your problem.
(Refer Slide Time: 09:55)
.
(Refer Slide Time: 09:57)
So, our problem is what we collectively realized is that guided meditation is boring and even 
though it is really boring is really needed.
(Refer Slide Time: 10:10)
And we the problem statement thus came down to finding alternatives and aids to developing 
mindfulness. Mindfulness is a concept that talks about living from moment like experiencing 
moment from moment to moment and not (Refer Time: 10:25) on things that are in the past or in 
the present.
And we were wondering if there could be a way where this act of focusing on your body on your 
breath on different points of the body through yoga and guided meditation, it usually falls like the 
burden of attaining enlightenment falls on the person and his ability to concentrate.
So, we were just thinking what would be a better way to assist this path to enlightenment or feeling 
more mindful and we decided to look for product design solutions wherein there could be 
something as simple as a bug or a piece of marble; that when you lie down it travels across your 
body and it guides you where you should be focusing upon yeah and we are just exploring how 
we can get into the market which is already quite saturated for the lot of apps and products that 
encourage guided meditation.
Very good I personally like this topic a lot. So, I will be you know I will look forward for a solution 
this is fabulous area and like but you could be very you know I think your problem statement is 
too wide.
(Refer Slide Time: 11:31)
Narrow down to just meditation narrow down to just support during meditation which will be more 
intuitive which will be more you know inherent. So, things like that may be much more definition 
your problem statement and you know we all know the advantages of meditation is phenomenal. 
So, you know you can just go there because that was exactly the problem you face.
(Refer Slide Time: 11:50)
And we will check how many other people are facing that problem and what type of health benefits 
they get. So, that is anyway their knowledge is there. So, like and product design solution will be 
fabulous actually, your because you know we really do not know whether it is possible to build 
such a solution. But with your creative thinking you can surely build such solutions yeah Rupesh 
what do you say this looks like a very very interesting area.
(Refer Slide Time: 12:13)
Yeah, so again interesting Pin-Point problem and come down to that part where is the value that 
you will be adding differentiate from good to have something which is just an accessory or an 
ancillary products to something which is a need based thing maybe that is something there are lot 
of people who want to do this, but they do not know whether they are progressing. So, monitoring 
is also something which helps you identify if you quantify something. So, that is something which 
you could try you will be able to come out properly.
Like one of the aspects of mindfulness is also focused breathing and we also realized that while 
practicing mindfulness can be a way to better react and respond to symptoms of asthma and COPD 
and if that kind of mindfulness can be developed in patients with this disease it would be helpful. 
So, those are the kind of utilities we are also looking for and may be it can be more pinpointed in 
that direction.
(Refer Slide Time: 13:11)
Yeah yeah, it is a good area it is so define your unmet clinical need if it is going to be towards any 
treatment alleviation or supporting any therapy. If that is what you are then you are in medical 
device zone say there is a difference between fitbit versus temperature which is thermometer which 
is medical grade ECG versus Apple watch because apple watch never claims that it is for clinical 
use or medical use it is something which you can measure you can move.
But there is no clinical relevance to it. So, try to figure out whether you are going to be in a first 
zone or the second zone, because when the regulatory compliances are difficult. So, choose the 
product accordingly both are valid both segments are good.
Actually we were mostly thinking to start it up as a brand and sell it as a brand instead of a product. 
So, brand that sells products which are designed to so that people can pursue mindfulness.
(Refer Slide Time: 14:11)
Always come back to the part of value, finally Amazon could be a brand, but there is a service 
which either it is a product or service either it has to be one of that that is it.
I am very happy that you are only talking about product planning, where you have 6 products and 
you choose a product you want fabulous. That is of course good, but that comes you know little 
you know like further in the street this where you have defined your you know statement very well 
your you know your brand you know the brand statement of what is your brand standing for.
So, you know and then maybe you are not in the clinical space, so think about that if you are in 
the clinical space the situation will be very different yeah.
(Refer Slide Time: 14:46)
(Refer Slide Time: 14:48)
Hi this is Amir we are group seven team members are me Gaurav and Karan all are sitting here.
(Refer Slide Time: 14:52)
We want to focus on the segment of backpacks, because backpack is something that everyone 
carries and sometimes in the form of a bag sometimes in the form of a trolley. So, we have not 
narrowed it down to one problem statement, but we are focusing on one segment and what we did 
was we brainstormed on the problems related to the backpacks trolleys.
And this particular segment we jotted down every kind of and any kind of problem that we face 
the first one was a gamification of bags for school kids, trying to make the backpacks interactive 
for the children, second one was a backpack for blinds they cannot see it so, make it something 
tactile and something in nature that a blind person can feel and interact with the back pack.
(Refer Slide Time: 15:41)
All the areas are perfect. So, we will you know backpacks with sitting or standing support like that 
was talking about chair wear project. Fabulous again gamification of bags for school kids do not 
know weight of the luggage before going to airport wow fabulous a very important problem in 
taking out stuff from bag when it is on the back, wow we did this for the postman you know where 
we had a both sling and a back support, portable or convertible backpack for a immigration labor 
workers wow.
(Refer Slide Time: 16:06)
All of them too good very nice let us have much more detail and we will know by tomorrow yeah 
very good.
Yeah.
Sure sir.
(Refer Time: 16:13) next group.
(Refer Slide Time: 16:14)
(Refer Slide Time: 16:16)
So, we zero down our focus area on traditional learning and classroom learning which I think all 
of us have questioned after COVID with the online system setting in.
(Refer Slide Time: 16:27)
So, our problem statement that we have zero down right now is to remedial measures to transform 
the traditional classroom education system into a new and more flexible version which is robust 
agile special spatial and tech enabled. So, we are still thinking on how we are going to do this 
forward, though we do have a project that we have been working on since earlier on education.
(Refer Slide Time: 16:52)
You let you know will be more specific maybe, you know within the education what exactly are 
you seeing. What is the remedial measures? You are seeing remedial measure when the people 
who are not passing out in classes you know people were not you know able to. Because they do 
not learn something and they go to the next class because of they have not learned something they 
cannot go forward know that is the remedial you know classes they have. So, that they can cope 
up with you know the education.
So, just check out those things and I think it is surely a good problem to solve, but you know from 
a business angle from a, you know what would you pinpoint on for making it very effective. 
Because lot of these online platforms are coming in how do you measure how do you take things 
forward it could be a very good you know thing for all these people you know very good topic and 
very you know pertinent for our condition.
(Refer Slide Time: 17:41)
(Refer Slide Time: 17:44)
I am going to present for the next group. So, this is the team and we started discussing and 
brainstorming and after our discussion we just came across with common points that we all felt 
like working towards.
(Refer Slide Time: 17:58)
And the problem statement that we all agreed to work on was how might we bridge the gaps in the 
different social interactions. So, there are different types of social interactions and interactions are 
very important because they are not only a part of a social life. But they affect us emotionally 
mentally in all of those ways.
So, we were thinking that what are the different gap areas or how do social interactions affect us. 
So, some questions that have been mind boggling us are basically the experience of say an 
individual who is been at home for so long and now needs to go out in the world and needs to do 
reconnect with people.
So, interactions between them or maybe just children or kids who have been at home and have not 
been going to school for years now for three four years of schooling and then they are suddenly 
have to be in that environment.
So, other important things were generational gap like there is not any game that you can play with 
your parents to just have a interaction or promoting your thoughts or listening to what they think.
So, we just categorizing the different social different gaps in social interaction and trying to 
understand how we can bridge this and the initial vague idea that we have right now are kind of 
some sorts of games or activities or say even a template form of enhancing or encouraging such 
conversations.
(Refer Slide Time: 19:27)
This is a; this is a fabulous area Ananya very nice, but we can actually add all those things social 
interaction between the elders and games. So, whatever that and you can add in that other aspect 
also. So, you can build the problem statement already and lock in over there.
Ok.
Because a toughest of the problem is actually social interaction between you know like the you 
know the elders and the you know youngsters, the parents and children or uncles and nieces 
whichever way and you know you are talking about game. So, it can be a game based attracts, so 
a game based you know gap bridging social interaction between elder.
Do something that is an icebreaker.
No icebreaking will that will be a solution that will be separate thing, but your problem statement 
could be this way you are you know bridging the gap between you know elders and you know like 
you know two age groups basically with the game. So, game is very fixed you know like the gap 
is fixed and the people are fixed.
So, you need to really fix that and please you know lock that and it is a really really good area and 
it could be you know varied you know aspect which you did not come up with. So, will have 
detailed presentations later on when we have all the mentors and all together. But today is just to 
you know how to get our problem statement right.